hey everybody today's video is something
a little different so stay tuned no like
I said today's video is a little
different than my other ones I received
a question last week during my FAQ
videos and I decided to hold it because
I thought this question was something
that would be so great to talk about in
a Monday video so without further ado
here's the question it says hey Kati how
much should you excuse someone with
depression my little sister has been
diagnosed with severe depression and
panic disorder understandably she's not
herself
she's short-tempered and irritable but
also can be quite vindictive and mean
she used to be really sweet and I
understand that this is just part of her
illness and I just let it go but she
does this to our baby sister too and she
can't understand that it's not her fault
as a family
we've been letting her take her
frustrations out on everybody and I
wonder if that's the right thing to do I
have a very good relationship with her
and I'll often tell her gently
afterwards if I think she's been
particularly harsh to someone else
sometimes it upsets her and I worry that
I'm just adding to her negative voices
is it best to just let to let her know
when she's being hurtful or to just give
her a break from any criticism in order
to build herself up against her negative
voices I love her so much and I want to
do what's best to help her but I don't
want our baby sister to feel hurt either
help now I thought this was a great
question because of the fact that I
often speak mainly to the people
themselves who are struggling with the
mental illness and I don't always talk
to how the family can feel and I know
many of us have family members or loved
ones who struggle with mental illness
and how much is too much to let them get
away with that's a great question right
and in my practice I would take a three
step approach the first beam family
therapy the second being externalizing
the problem and the third would be
seeking your own personal therapy now
the first going back to the first
seeking family therapy why would I
recommend that I would recommend family
therapy to people because
it gives you a safe place to talk about
the things that you struggle to talk
about in your everyday life we don't
often have times in our life where we're
sitting around together where everybody
feels safe to talk about things where
there's a mediator someone like your
therapist is there to help make sure
everyone gets heard and no one gets
stepped on we don't have that setup in
our regular lives and that's why it's
important to seek it out and create it
find a therapist that none of you have
seen before that sees families and deals
with the depression it will be a great
experience for all of you in a safe
place to vent about what's going on in
your family now the second thing
externalizing the problem I know this
sounds silly but it can really really
help the person who's struggling with
the mental illness if we do this
externalizing the problem means that
instead of saying to them you made me
feel this way or when you did that I
felt terrible and that was really
hurtful instead of having those kinds of
arguments slash conversations it can
really help to say you know when the
depression came into our family
I really struggled and now the
depression is everywhere it's ruining
our relationship it can help the person
not feel so at fault and it can also
help them see relief from their problem
and realize that it's not them it's
their depression now the third thing is
seeking your own personal therapy and
the reason that I recommend this to my
clients if I'm seeing them in a family
setting is if the family setting isn't
enough it's very very normal to feel
exhausted to be frustrated to not know
what to do to almost feel trapped
because we don't want to hurt the person
with a mental illness more than they're
already hurting yet we're hurting and so
to have our own personal therapy without
the family around can be a safe place to
vent all those feelings you have all
those things that bubble up all the
frustrations and the hurts and it can be
a nice place for you to work on taking
care of you because when we're caring
for someone else it can be really
exhausting and really tiring we have to
make sure that we're taking doubly good
care of ourselves in order to not only
care for ourselves but care for someone
else I know it's really difficult to
have someone in our family struggle with
mental illness and it can be really
exhausting not only for the person with
the mental illness but for the entire
family so make sure that you are taking
proper precaution and steps in order to
help your family deal with it and help
yourself take you know take good care of
yourself so you can continue to help
those that you love so much I hope this
video was helpful if any of you have any
information or tips and tricks that have
worked with your family as always share
your comments below and don't forget to
subscribe to my channel because I put
out videos five days a week and you
don't want to miss them until next time
let's work towards a healthy mind and a
healthy body
because chances are that when that's
happening a boundaries been stepped on
somebody's walked over it and they're
taking advantage but we haven't said
anything and we haven't set that up so
we're going to have to do that right
and it'll be difficult and